# Master-thesis
In this thesis, the author expected to fill in this gap by providing empirical insights mining from a large dataset of Airbnb listings that compete in the same market segments with traditional 2-start hotels in New York City (NYC). The central goal is that, by mining publicly available Airbnb data, this thesis can provide insightful information on current Airbnb revenue management tactics, which can help hotel managers learn to make decisions that optimize their revenue. Therefore, any insights mining from the dataset that can have impacts on both quantity and price decisions are valuable. 
To do so, the first part focused on analyzing the current pattern of the NYC lodging market and the spatial distribution of Airbnb listings. An exploratory analysis of the Airbnb listings dataset and clustering algorithm performed on socio-economic data of NYC pinpointed that the NYC lodging market is largely dependent on geographic and socio-economic features, where the majority of Airbnb listings concentrated in the Manhattan neighborhood and its surrounding areas, close to the center of both businesses and entertainments. Secondly, there is also a strong correlation between listings density and areas with a high innovation rate, a high proportion of creative class, and a large mixed of all cultures, suggesting a preference of customers to experience all facets of local customs and beauties. Thirdly, the spatial density of Airbnb adoption with a general view about demand, price, or favorite visited areas of customers briefly give hoteliers overall understandings of NYC rental market characteristics, customer preferences, and how their competitor-Airbnb is performing on the market. After the exploratory analysis, the author expected that these questions would be addressed clearly:
•	How does the number of listings vary by neighborhood clusters?
•	How do the prices of listings vary by neighborhood clusters?
•	How does demand vary across neighborhood clusters?
•	What are the different types of properties in neighborhood clusters? 
•	Which locations are rated highly by guests?
The second part of this thesis is to leverage large data set of Airbnb customer reviews to help hotel managers understand the current customer’s preference on the accommodation market. Specifically, the thesis will help hoteliers to answer the following questions: what makes a rental experience good or bad? What are the prominent aspects of the lodging experience that customers care about? What makes the Airbnb experience so special? Are all customers treat each lodging aspect equally? If customer’s preference over aspects is different, how should hoteliers offer the highest level of personalization to satisfy customers? The author addressed those questions by first, using the latest technique in topic modeling: Latent Dirichlet Analysis (LDA) to find that there are five hidden lodging aspects in customer reviews: value, location, communication, products/services, experience. Then, analyzing different sentiment nuances expressed in each aspect, the author finds that Airbnb customers show the highest level of concerns over product quality and trustworthiness of service providers due to the lack of standardized and guaranteed product offerings. Finally, this thesis examines Airbnb customer review behaviors based on their perceived importance of each lodging aspect, and disclose that whilst low-paying customers pay attention to some traditional features of accommodation services such as location or products/services, high-paying customers are willing to pay an additional fee to enjoy “live like a local” experience, personalized products and strong connection with hosts and locals, suggesting the needs for hoteliers to revolutionize brand images and focus on offering an authentic experience rather than mass traveling packages. 
In the final analysis, the author investigates two main pillars of revenue management tactics applied by Airbnb hosts: market segmentation and pricing strategies. K-means clustering algorithm applied on listing’s features such as property characteristics, pricing policies, location, host background, guest background, review ratings, rental policies, and historical availability to identify the current market segments on NYC lodging market and the results indicated that there are four main market segments targeted by Airbnb: ordinary listings offering short-term rental to individual/couple customers, premium listings offering short-term rental to individual/couple customers, short-term rental to customers traveling in a group and long-term rental. Next, the thesis goes further by investigating how Airbnb hosts practice their pricing strategies across the market segment. Using net price per night per guest metric as the dependent variable, the author also includes market segment-specific trends, month dummies to test seasonality impact in dynamic pricing across the different markets, and year dummies to see price fluctuation between a normal year and year under impacted of Covid. The results indicated that there are significant differences in both frequency and extent of dynamic pricing application in the different market segments. While low-quality listings seem to use price as a key tool to compete in the market, high-quality listings are less dependent on price but focus on offering high-quality services and enjoy additional extra fees. These findings provide hoteliers with insights on how Airbnb hosts exercise dynamic pricing strategies on different market segments, which serve as a critical knowledge base for the hotel management team to make decisions on their pricing strategies later.
The author concludes this thesis by aggregating all findings derived from all previous analyses to discuss theoretical implications and managerial insights for 2-start hoteliers to devise an effective revenue management strategy to compete effectively against fierce competition from Airbnb. 
